I'll kill them!
I'll kill them all!
Traitors and villains!
- They dare strike at me!
- Your Grace.
- I am the king!
- Your Grace! Yes. yes.
- Your Grace. Please. Your Grace.
Traitors and villains!
Fire from the sky.
This is war! I declare war!
I declare war!
The gates have been shut.
The search progresses.
The villain will be found.
We mustn't be shaken by this.
This act.
- The child.
- The child is dead.
His pain is ended.
But what they've done to...
to my girl...
Yes.
And they will pay for this.
Who will pay?
Whosever hand did this
or caused it to be done.
And what if the hand that's done it
is not who must be blamed?
The gods punish us.
They punish me.
For what sin?
Daughter. listen to me.
We will mourn as we must
but some good may yet come of this.
And where were
the members of this council
while the murderer
threatened their king?
Were you also threatened. Your Grace?
I could have been!
My son is my legacy!
My son is heir to the Iron Throne!
And where were you.
the Lord Commander of my Kingsguard?
I was abed. Your Grace.
having ordered the Night's Watch.
Abed.
Abed!
Instead of safeguarding
the sanctity of my family!
This is not the time for blind
accusations. Your Grace.
We'll know who did this soon enough.
Who did this? Who... what?
Is there any question who did this?
Who would do this
save the bitch queen of bastards
the smug cunt of Dragonstone?
There she sits across the bay.
on her rock. laughing at me.
She's fucking laughing at me!
You wished her life to be spared.
If I may. Your Grace.
My lords.
The guard has detained someone.
The man we apprehended
is known to us.
He's a gold cloak.
Noted for his brutal nature.
We caught him.
fleeing the Gate of the Gods
with the child's head in a sack.
I'll kill him myself.
We'd do well to get what information
we can from the blackguard.
I trust in the mastery of your trade.
Lord Larys.
Oh. always studying. always protocol.
We know our enemy!
A king may have more than
one enemy. Your Grace.
We would do well to ascertain
if this is your sister's hand
or if there is a serpent
nestled closer to our bosoms.
I suppose you're right. Ironrod.
Could be anyone.
It could be any one of you
in this room.
Lord Jasper is correct.
In one sense.
we must determine what happened
and if we in the Keep
are still in peril.
In another sense. of course...
it doesn't matter.
You mean to blame Rhaenyra.
Tell the realm she has done this.
I'll have the realm told nothing.
We were assaulted
within our own walls.
Within our own beds.
I will not be seen as weak.
You're already seen as weak. Aegon.
You fucking...
A hasty coronation.
a dragon escaping the pit.
The people see an omen.
They whisper in the streets.
They say. perhaps Rhaenyra
should be queen.
And so. you would name her.
"Monster. Slayer of infants."
I would do more than that.
A funeral progress.
Let them see the child.
Let them look upon the works of
this pretender to the throne.
Father.
- My king?
- No.
I will not have my little son's body
dragged through the street
like a dead dog.
Not dragged! Honored!
Escorted to the dragon pit
to be burned as a Targaryen prince.
Your Grace.
No.
Let no one say I do not grieve.
Jaehaerys was my grandson.
I loved him.
I will not have him die in vain.
Those who declared for Rhaenyra
will they still support her
when they hear of her depravity?
Or will they rather not renounce her?
Jaehaerys will do more for us now
than a thousand knights in battle.
You will have your war. Your Grace.
But if you wait a short time.
you may yet double your strength.
Mother.
The Hand sets on a difficult path.
my darling
but it might be the right one.
Let the Silent Sisters ready
the prince for his final journey.
And riding behind him.
his mother the Queen
and with her. the Queen Dowager.
No. I do not wish to be a spectacle.
The realm must see
the sorrow of the crown
a sorrow best expressed
through its most gentle souls.
I think you'll all agree
the king himself must be spared.
There's to be a funeral
for Jaehaerys.
We've been asked to ride on a wagon
behind his body.
I don't want to.
Neither do I.
But when a thing like this happens
a blow to the king
is a blow to the realm.
When the people share our grief.
they draw closer to us.
I don't want them closer.
I don't know them.
Sometimes. we have to pretend.
Why?
We are representatives of the throne.
We have a duty.
Helaena. what you saw last night
when you came to my room...
This is for my boy.
I was hired by Daemon Targaryen.
He paid us. Half now.
half when the job is done.
- Who is "us"?
- A... a ratcatcher.
Employed by the household.
I don't know his right name.
Behold the works of
Rhaenyra Targaryen!
Pretender to the throne!
Kingslayer!
Deepest sympathies. my Queen.
Gods be with you. my Queen.
We support you. Queen Helaena.
Defiler of the innocent!
Behold the works of
Rhaenyra the cruel!
Are you gonna hurt me?
No.
But I cannot vouch for His Grace.
Behold the works
of Rhaenyra Targaryen!
Our Queen!
Pretender to the throne!
Kingslayer!
Defiler of the innocent!
Queen Helaena!
What's happening there?
- Queen Helaena!
- What's going on? Move it. then!
Queen Helaena!
- Helaena.
- Queen Helaena!
- Heave! Heave!
A curse. a curse on
Rhaenyra. the monstrous!
It is yet unclear how the Keep
itself was breached.
The boy's head
was severed from his body.
Thousands witnessed the procession.
And they are accusing me
of having a hand in this.
It appears so.
There have been messages
sent to that effect
throughout the realm.
We must send our own messages.
denying this vile allegation.
I will do so at once
but I'm not sure they will be
received in good faith.
And we must double our guard.
here and in Driftmark.
There will be swift retribution
in one form or another.
I have seen to it. Your Grace.
Let me fly out on Vermax.
Rhaenys is needed in the Gullet
and I can watch for movements
- from King's Landing.
- No.
It must be said that the damage to
our position is immeasurable
at a time when we most need
loyalty to our cause.
But it's a lie.
Having lost my own son
that I would inflict such a thing
on Helaena. of all people.
An innocent.
The death of Prince Lucerys
was a shock and an insult.
A mother so aggrieved might...
naturally.
seek relief in retribution.
Are you suggesting. Ser Alfred
that my grief drove me to order
the decapitation of a child?
I merely thought. perhaps.
an action taken in haste...
Mind yourself.
Did you send assassins
to murder children in their beds?
I sent the queen's vengeance
for her son.
What did you tell this "vengeance"?
What did you say to him. Daemon
that a boy lies dead
and I am accused of killing it?
Mysaria provided me with names
and a subterfuge.
I was clear in my instructions.
Aemond. the brother of
Aegon the Usurper.
I cannot be responsible
for a mistake.
Cannot be responsible?
If Aemond was not to be found.
what were your instructions then?
They did not concern. in any way
- that of a little child.
- You said that it was your aim
to spill Hightower blood
and if not Aemond.
then anyone would do.
- No.
- You have wounded me.
Weakened my claim to the throne
my ability to raise an army.
my standing among my own council.
I said no.
I don't believe you.
And so we come to it. at long last.
Cannot trust you. Daemon.
I've never trusted you. wholly
much though I wished to.
willed myself to.
But now I have seen that
your heart belongs only to you.
And when I was a child.
I took this as a challenge.
But I am older now.
I have challenges enough.
- I have served you faithfully.
- Have you?
Or have you used me as a tool
with which to grasp
at your stolen inheritance?
When Ser Erryk brought you the crown
did I myself not place it
upon your brow?
Yes. but before that.
you sought to lead a council of war
while I labored alone
in my bedchamber.
And afterward.
when I thought it meet to consider
- the terms our foes put before us...
- A folly! A folly!
To give up my brother's throne
to the traitorous lies
- of Otto Hightower!
- My throne. Daemon. mine!
I think you used
my words as an excuse
to take your own revenge
to indulge the darkness you keep
sheathed within you like a blade.
You think me some kind of monster.
I don't know what to think of you.
I don't know what you are
or who it is you serve.
Am I not on my way. even now.
to Harrenhal
to raise an army
in your name. Rhaenyra? Yours!
Do you accept me
as your queen and ruler?
Or do you cling. even now.
to what you think you lost?
What I think I lost?
You did not lose it. You gave it away
because you thought ever and only
of your own glory
and not of my father in his grief
- who needed you.
- Your father was a coward
who knew I was the stronger son.
that I was the leader of men
and he was afraid
to be seen in my shadow.
Is that what you understand
of your own brother?
You know him better than I do.
who was raised at his side?
Do you believe he made you heir
because of your great wisdom?
Because of your virtue?
- How dare you.
- Or did he merely use you as a tool
to put me in my place
because he was afraid of me?
Because he knew your legacy
unlike mine.
would never outshine his own.
He was not afraid of you. Daemon!
He could not trust you
any more than I can trust you.
He was a fool who sought greatness
but shrank from spilling blood
to achieve it.
And I see you
will suffer the same fate.
You struck down a child.
It was a mistake.
You're pathetic.
Father?
You wish to see me. Your Grace?
When morning comes
take Moondancer and
keep a watch on King's Landing.
I must know which course
they take next.
I will be vigilant.
I depend on you. Baela.
Stay high and keep your distance.
We can afford no further mistakes.
My father?
He must follow his own path.
If you please. m'lord.
Have you told anyone?
What do you take me for?
One who seeks absolution.
There is none for what I've done.
What is this?
It's a reminder of yesterday.
I think.
The procession was muddy.
- I'll replace it hence.
- Do it now.
The night was long. Ser Criston
- and I had not eaten...
- You defy my authority. Ser Arryk.
I do not.
The white cloak is a symbol
of our purity. our fidelity.
Kingsguard are a sacred trust.
Will you so easily sully
our ancient honor?
I have erred. my lord.
I'll remedy the error.
Where were you
when Jaehaerys was murdered?
With King Aegon.
And you were not
in the private quarters
where you might have
prevented the crime.
His Grace wished to entertain
his companions in the throne room.
But if you had thought
to go upstairs...
Where were you. Lord Commander?
And why has Helaena the Queen
been granted no sworn protector?
Surely once she ascended. she...
Your brother is a thief
and a traitor to the crown.
You well know how it pains me.
How are we to know that
you do not secretly share
- his sentiments?
- I denounced him before the king.
We were one soul in two bodies. yes.
If I'd shared his sentiments.
I would've fled with him.
First. your brother betrays us.
And then the young prince
is murdered on your watch.
You are mad. Ser.
Mad!
You cannot think that I did this!
What I think has no relevance!
You have brought disgrace
upon our ranks...
and now you must restore it.
How am I to do that?
You will go to Dragonstone
and strike down Rhaenyra
in her own halls.
The way she sought to do with Aemond.
We will pay the princess back
in her own bloody coin.
Alone?
Does your courage fail you.
Ser Arryk?
It's not a matter of courage.
The castle is defended
against all enemies. now especially.
- How would I enter?
- Your twin serves there
at the pleasure
of the so-called queen.
They will mistake you for him
if you play the part.
We are sworn to serve forthrightly.
not to traffic in deception.
Put down the pretender
and you will end a war
before it begins.
- If they see the two of us...
- You must not let that happen.
- You would send me to my death.
- Or to triumph.
And glory.
Now. will you go?
Or must I question
your loyalty to the king?
As you command. my lord.
You missed supper.
I wasn't hungry.
I don't think anyone was. really.
Too many empty seats.
Do you know where he went?
Harrenhal. I would think.
Sometimes I think I hate him.
It's hard. with fathers.
What do you remember of my uncle?
He taught us to catch fish
and sing sailors' shanties.
He had a weakness for cake.
And Ser Harwin Strong?
He was gentle. and fierce.
They called him "Breakbones."
He loved us. I think.
Of course. he did.
I miss Luke.
Daemon sent them to kill me.
I was out.
You were with me.
In truth. I am proud
that he considers me such a foe.
And that he seeks
to murder me in my bed.
He's afraid of me.
As well he should be.
The boy is grown into a man.
No. Not here.
I do regret that business with Luke.
I lost my temper that day.
I am sorry for it.
I am glad to hear it.
They used to tease me. you know?
Because I was different.
I would remind you only that
when princes lose their temper
it is often others who suffer.
The smallfolk.
Like me.
How is she?
Much the same.
The markets have been running low
since the blockade.
Surely the city cannot yet be
short of food.
I think not. but people are afraid.
Those with means are hoarding
everything they can.
I walked two hours today
to find a chicken for the pot
and paid three times
as much as I should have.
The selfishness of people.
I cannot blame anyone for doing
what I myself would do if I could.
I don't think
you'd let children go hungry
while you filled your own cellars.
Lucky we don't have
enough coin to find out.
The king has promised us some relief.
Did he say when?
I'm afraid. Hugh.
I see all your great adventures
have done nothing for your looks.
Well met. brother.
after many months away.
I missed you.
Did you slay many pirates?
Oh. more than you. to be sure.
A jest.
One you may regret
as you're supping alone tonight.
I regret it already.
I've broken my teeth on hard tack.
Addam.
Say you have a pot of your goat stew
simmering at home.
You're in luck.
In more ways than one.
I hear Lord Corlys himself
commended you
for your service to him.
- He did.
- Will you sail with him
when his ship has been repaired?
I am one of a dozen shipwrights
now called from Hull
to attend with all speed
to your fleet.
He made no offer.
And I would rather he didn't.
truth be told.
Do not be foolish. Alyn.
To serve with the Sea Snake
is to make your fortune.
Had I such a chance.
I would leap at it.
That's because you haven't seen
what I've seen.
There is a war brewing. Addam.
A real one.
Another opportunity
to distinguish yourself.
- Remind him of your worth.
- I need no favors.
But brother. he owes you. he owes us.
Does the stew have carrots in it?
I mistrust this silence.
Daemon flies when we most need
his hand at the oar.
Devotion has never sat well with him.
Where he goes.
he wishes to be his own master.
He is the king consort.
But he is not the king.
Neither am I. but I manage.
I too have felt
the crown pass over me.
It is a hard thing to accept.
And now Viserys is dead
and all claims are in doubt.
You do not think
Daemon will challenge her?
Not as such.
But neither can he allow her
to command him.
Pity.
I have. on occasion.
found that to be quite enjoyable.
Let us take him at his word.
If he can take Harrenhal.
all may well be forgiven.
In the meantime. I am here.
And Meleys.
We will not let the queen falter.
The lady Mysaria. Your Grace.
You're aware of yesterday's events
in King's Landing?
I am.
Tell me what part you played
in their unfolding.
I had nothing to do with it.
I know you are entwined
with the usurpers
that you aided them
in denying me my birthright.
I took profits from an inevitability.
I regret it now.
I'm sure you do.
Who are you?
A prisoner.
I gave Daemon two names.
That is the extent of it.
And I did not wish to do that much.
He said it was
the price of my freedom.
Does he say otherwise?
He is gone.
For how long?
A week. or forever. I do not know.
He does do that. doesn't he?
You remember me now.
He said he would marry you.
- He said you carried his child.
- Not everyone found the jest funny.
And now it seems he's done it again.
made a promise and then slipped away.
You trade in the secrets
of the Red Keep.
Your web runs unseen
through King's Landing.
And now. when my enemy coils
himself to strike at me...
I can do nothing now but ask you
to honor your husband's words.
It would not serve me
to set you free.
At best. I lose an asset to my cause.
At worst.
you betray me in some foul way.
I have no interest in betraying you.
Your Grace.
So you say.
I was brought to Westeros
with nothing.
I toiled in service. I stole.
I sold my own body for coin or bread.
And I listened.
I collected confidences.
I made myself valuable
to powerful men.
Bit by bit. I earned my living.
A house. a household. a home.
Then they set it all aflame.
- Who did?
- The Hightowers. I can only assume.
The Hand did not like it
when I showed my teeth.
But I thank him for it.
For too long. I made it my aim
to be of consequence.
But now. I see that was
the wish of a child.
Daemon. Otto Hightower.
Makes no difference.
They will never accept me.
I might as well
have remained a whore.
How did you get that scar?
Oh no.
My son.
- Who are they?
- Ratcatchers.
In the king's employ.
What'd they do?
What have you done?
The ratcatchers!
I had them hanged.
The maggot who took my son
confessed to an accomplice.
He could not say for certain
which man it was. so.
- Idiot!
- Beware how you speak
to your king. my lord.
The king is my grandson
and my grandson is a fool!
He's worse than a fool!
He's murdered innocent men!
And one guilty one.
And hanged them from the walls
of the city for all to see!
Plot against the king. and I will
pay it back a hundred times...
They are fathers
and brothers and sons!
And their wives and children
gather now at our gates to weep
and curse your name!
With your child's blood.
we bought their approval.
With your mother's tears.
we made a bitter sacrifice
against the deprivations to come.
And you've thrown it away.
After all I've done for you.
Thoughtless. feckless...
self-indulgent.
At least I did something.
I have not answered injury
to the crown with. what?
Wailing and currying favor
with the fishwives?
I will not be thought weak.
Even now. news of Rhaenyra's
monstrous crime
spreads through the realm.
The great houses falter.
They cannot but come to our side.
I wish to spill blood. not ink!
We must act.
Ser Criston Cole has acted.
And what has Ser Criston Cole done?
He has sent Ser Arryk
to slay Rhaenyra.
Alone?
He's pretending to be his own twin.
Brilliant.
Gods help us all.
It's time the bitch queen
paid a price.
And you acceded to this prank
without consulting me or the council?
Instead of judgment.
you display impetuousness
and diminish us in the eyes
of our enemy!
Ill-considered. trifling!
Do you never think of
your father? His...
forbearance. his...
judiciousness. his...
his dignity.
Fuck dignity!
I want revenge.
My father is dead.
He is.
And we are the poorer for it.
He was right about you.
He made me king.
Is that what you think?
Remove your badge. Ser Otto.
You were my father's Hand.
Not mine.
Take it off.
You wouldn't dare.
I have dared
and I find it stimulating.
Insolent pup.
You think yourself clever
but without a strong Hand
at your side...
to guide?
Give it to Cole.
Your Grace?
In this hour. you have proven
yourself of more worth
than a hundred old men.
My new Hand will be a steel fist.
You will regret this.
Give it to him.
You are dismissed.
I do not know if I trust you.
And I sense that
there is danger in you yet.
But I will keep the word of my house
if you say that it was given.
You may go.
Your Grace.
There's a Velaryon ship in the harbor
bound for Myr by way of Pentos.
I will see that
you are given passage.
I'm not so unworldly as to
let you fly free.
I am... Thank you.
Ser Erryk.
Mysaria will be leaving us.
Let her collect her things.
Then have someone take her down
and secure her berth on the Corwyn.
Your Grace.
A moment.
Ser Erryk.
- I thought you were within.
- A sorry lack of vigilance.
The enemy is about. good ser.
Please try and lay down. Your Grace.
Thank you. Elinda.
Ser Erryk.
It's been a strange day.
I'm restless.
I will stand this evening's duty.
You must sleep tonight. Your Grace.
Let me ask the maester for a draught.
Perhaps that would be best.
Thank you. Elinda.
Ser Erryk?
Believe me. I had no choice.
I don't understand.
Brother!
Do not do this.
I beg you.
You were the one
who betrayed us. Erryk.
Run. Elinda! Run and find Ser Lorent!
- Your Grace!
- Ser Lorent!
With me. Your Grace!
Which? Which is Erryk?
- We were born together.
- You parted us!
But I still love you. Brother.
Your Grace.
Erryk.
Forgive me.
No!
It is ignorance and vanity.
You know as well as I do
that Aegon must be kept in check.
As does Ser Criston.
The two of them together.
Ser Criston is not temperate
but his devotion
cannot be questioned.
- If it does come to war...
- He's ensured it.
He's young and unschooled.
His faith is in steel and bone.
He has not the long view.
None of them do.
They wish now
not for the good of the realm
but for the petty satisfaction
of vengeance.
Aegon is still malleable.
It is the death of the child
that has unstrung him.
I can't stay here.
Exiled from the council.
Witness to the blundering
of our plans.
I'll return to Oldtown.
The Hightowers still have strength
and you have a son there
who will take
more kindly to instruction.
Daeron may yet help us
in weeks to come.
Go rather to Highgarden.
The Tyrells must be taken in hand.
Their bannermen are wavering.
While you're gone.
I'll speak sense to him.
His blood will cool.
In time. you may yet return.
The young are peacocks.
all shrieking and feathers.
But we will yet prevail
and bring forth peace.
I still believe it.
As long as you and I hold fast.
I have sinned.
I do not wish to hear of it.